DEPARTMENT OF POSTS 

MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS & IT 

GOVERNMENT OF INDIA



System Requirements Specification (SRS)

Policy Loan 










































Functional Requirement



The purpose of this business specification is to outline the business requirements necessary to support IMA  Policy loan processing option & logic applicable to each process. 



Process flow



Loan sanction



Indexing at the counter of BO/SO/HO

Verification of the necessary documents and Indexing 

Indexed Number is noted and receipt generation

All the Documents with Indexed number sent to CPC for further processing

Procesed and Approved by CPC

Generation of Loan sanction through various modes

Making payment and Payment date to be captured to close the process.

The Policy is assigned to President of India for the time Loan is not fully repaid.

At CPC the Loan Bond is kept in safe custody along with policy document.



Loan Repayment



Repayment along with interest 

	Loan interest is capitalised every 6 months





Functionality Description

    

A policy loan is issued by an insurance company that uses the surrender value of a person's life insurance policy as collateral. Loans can be obtained on PLI/RPLI policies . Loan is granted on the security of P.L.I Policy. 



Interest at 10 % per annum is charged on the loan compounded half-yearly. Interest for the half year will be charged on the amount outstanding on the first day of the half year and repayments made during the half year will be taken into account for the calculation of interest for the next half year. Grace period of 21 days is permissible for payment of interest.



Second & subsequent loan is normally not admissible until one year after the repayment of the previous loan.



Functional Specification



Loan Eligibility criteria

The following table represents applicability of Loan functionality on India Post products:



PLI/RPLI

Product Type

Eligible for Loan

Policy Age Caveat

PLI

Whole Life Assurance

Y

Premium payment of 4 yrs. Minumum

PLI

Endowment Assurance

Y

Premium payment of 3 yrs. Minumum

PLI

Convertible Whole Life Assurance

Y

Premium payment of 4 yrs. Minumum

PLI

Anticipated Endowment Assurance

N

NA

PLI

Child Policy

N

NA

PLI

Joint Life Assurance

Y

Premium payment of 3 yrs. Minumum

RPLI

Whole Life Assurance

Y

Premium payment of 4 yrs. Minumum

RPLI

Endowment Assurance

Y

Premium payment of 3 yrs. Minumum

RPLI

Convertible Whole Life Assurance

Y

Premium payment of 4 yrs. Minumum

RPLI

Anticipated Endowment Assurance

N

NA

RPLI

Child policy

N

NA

RPLI

Anticipated Endowment Assurance

N

NA

The following are the product specific conditions for loan as a percentage of Surrender Value:

Product Type

Product Name

Currency of Policy

Percentage of surrender value admissible

Whole Life Assurance (WLA)

Suraksha and Gram Suraksha

More than 4 years to 7 years

90%





More than 7 years to 12 years

90%





More than 12 years

90%

Endowment Assurance(EA) and Convertible Whole Life Assurance(CWLA)

Santosh,          Gram Santosh, Suvidha ,             Gram Suvidha, Yugal Suraksha

More than 3 years to 5 years

90%





More than 5 years to 10 years

90%





More than 10 years

90%



Requirements  



Loan Application and Verification:



Note: The policy bond,loan request,loan bond have to  be scanned and stored.





Loan Sanction Calculation:



The following are the details of a Policy Number ABCDE

Product Name: Santhosh

Issue Date : 01/11/2019

Policy Years: 20 years

Surrender Value : 20,000 Rs.(Paidup+bonus)*Surrender factor



Loan Application Date: 30/09/2025



Maximum Loan Amount: 90% of Rs.20, 000 = Rs.18,0000 

Minimum Loan Amount: Rs. 1000.



Both Loan Amount Minimum Loan Amount and Maximum Loan Amount to be displayed while generation Quote and in sanction



Loan payment



 Process

First page Loan repayment  book to be printed and LRRB has to be issues

Sanction copy of the loan to be printed along with Loan bond





Loan Closure



 Process

Loan Interest amount has to be paid as per the Repayment Schedule given in Loan Bond.

The loan interest payment has to be paid once every 6 months. In case when Loan interest is not repaid within the due date the outstanding loan interest is capitalized in case of non-payment of loan interest.

On three consecutive defaults in Interest payment against loan, the policy shall be surrendered.

Currently any loan repayment is registered in the Loan repayment receipt book. In case of advance loan repayments the Repayment has to be revised and interest on the Outstanding Loan amount is calculated in next six monthly cycle.

All the repayment details are updated in Loan Repayment receipt book.





The following are the Implicit and RFP requirements for Loan Calculations in the Policy Administration system:



 Loan Interest Calculation for repayment.



Loan Interest Rate: 10 % p.a

Half yearly Intrest : 5%



Loan Workflow



Loan Request is indexed at PO and CPC Level, for which a New Ticket ID is auto generated.

For Adding to the existing Request, user can search from the Request number no.field.

After Submit, Document  goes to CPC for further processing.

Inputs



Request: Type: Loan

Policy Number:



OutPuts



Field

Description

Policy number

Unique identifier for the policy

Name

Policy holder's name

Date of Issue

When the policy was issued

Policy status

Current status of the policy (Active/Inactive/Pending, etc.)

Office

Issuing office or branch

Generated by

Staff member or system that generated the policy

Service request Number

Associated service request identifier





 Loan Quote Screen



Policy Summary

Field

Value

Policy Number

123456

Insured

Ramesh

Customer ID

1234

Insured DOB

01/01/1990

Insured PAN Number

XXXXX

Product Name

Santhosh

Loan



Policy Status

Active

Circle Code



Post office



Generated BY



Issue Date

10/11/2025

Loan Min Amount



Loan Max Amount



Surrender Factor



Loan Repayment amount





 



Documents to be given

View

Received

1. Filled Loan Application Form

🔗 View

☐

2. Premium Receipt Book (for cash policy)

🔗 View

☐

3. Disbursing Officer’s Certificate (last 6 months for deduction of premium, pay recovery policy)

🔗 View

☐

4. Loan Repayment Receipt Book (for second or subsequent loan)

🔗 View

☐

5. Loan Bond

🔗 View

☐

6. Policy Bond

🔗 View

☐



Loan Process







At DE stage

Policy Number: Unique identifier for the insurance policy

Customer ID: Unique identifier for the customer

Name: Customer’s name

Policy Status: Active/Inactive/Expired, etc.

Premium Paid Upto: Date till which premium payments are made



Output to be shown



Max loan

Min loan

Surrender value

% loan





To be captured



Purpose of Loan: Brief description of why the loan is needed as per business rule (e.g., Home, Education, Medical, etc.)

Disbursement Office: The office or branch responsible for releasing the loan

Loan Amount Required: The specific amount the applicant wants Loan



Buttons to be shown



Approver

Rejected

Submit for DE/QC

Cancel





The field properties of the above screen have been captured in section 10.2.2.








 Loan Approval Screen

 

The data entered by financial transaction E/uality checker is checked by the Financial Transaction Approver. 

Approver to check financial eligibility of the applicant.

Approver to check the assignment status of the applicant.

Approver to approve or reject the loan application.

   

Loan History



Details of Loan repayment to be shown

 



The following are the Loan Events:

Loan Sanction

Loan Repayment

Interest Capitalization.

Loan Status

The following are the Loan Status

Eligible

Outstanding



Loan Repayment and Remittances

The Loan Repayment and Remittance screens will be captured in Billing and Collection SRS.



Business Rules



Condition

Description

Loan Payment

Loan should be paid in installments of amount not less than Rs. 100

Loan Interest repayment date rule

Interest should be paid on(or) before 21st of due month (i.e. 6 monthly once)

Loan interest charge

Interest will be charged @ 10 % per annum compounding half yearly.

Final repayment condition

In the case of final repayment, interest will not be charged beyond the last date of the month is made provided that interest had already been charged on the loan for at least six months.

Second Loan

The second or subsequent loan shall not be granted until one year after the repayment of the previous loan*. 

Effect on Assignment due to loan

If an insured person has assigned his policy in favor of another person, loan on such a policy will be granted to the insured person only. The policy has to be re-assigned in his favor and then assign it to the President. 

Pre-requisite for Loan Processing

 Policy should be unencumbered/ unassigned. 

Pre-requisite for Loan Processing

Min Loan value of the policy should be 1,000.

Outstanding Loan deductions from Claim/benefit amount

The outstanding balance of the loan with interest will be recovered from the value of the policy at the time of settlement of the claim. 

Outstanding Loan Interest from Claim/benefit amount

Interest on a loan will accrue up to the last date of the month in which the policy becomes a claim either by maturity or by surrender, provided that interest for at least six months had been charged on the loan.

Interest repayment Grace days

On receipt of the above intimation, interest chargeable up to the end of the month of final repayment (provided that interest on the loan has already been charged for at least one half year) shall be calculated by the Postmaster General/ Head of Division and communicated to the insurant under registered post. The insurant shall be required to pay the amount of interest at any Head or Sub Post office within 21 days from the date of issue of intimation by the Postmaster General/ Head of Division.

Loan Last repayment

On the date the amount of loan is finally repaid, a letter is sent giving details on the amount repaid the date of repayment, the name of the insurant and the policy number and loan account. 

Policyholder confirmation on Loan last Payment

Policyholder need to send a written intimation on last repayment on installment.

Final repayment

Interest chargeable up to the end of the month of final repayment is communicated to Insured.  The insured shall pay the amount of interest within 21 days from the date of issue of intimation.

Loan Process Submission Event

This Event should do following transactions:

Process Loan for ‘Net Loan Amount’

Automatically Assign the Policy to President of India.

Generate Loan Sanction Letter





Various stages

 

The following is the Loan task inbox for various statuses:



Task

Allocated to

Indexing and Scanning

PO/CPC Indexer

Verification and data entry

DE Person

Approval

Approver

Loan Amount cheque/EFT  generation

Treasury/POSB EFT

Loan documents in safe custody

CPC

Apply Loan repayment amount

Collection

Loan closure

Request should be sent to DE for releasing Document















Reports/SMS/Email



Alert to be sent on default of loan interest payment as per Business rule.





Letters & Documents



Loan Letters and Reports

The Loan letters and reports are covered under Letters and Reports section of the SRS.

Cover Letter /Loan Sanction Letter

Loan Application Receipt 

Loan Rejection Letter 

Loan Interest Advise

Default Notice/ Overdue Intimation 

Default termination letter 

Loan Repayment receipt- Branch

Loan Repayment receipt- Portal 

Cheque Dishonour for Repayment 

Loan Default reminder letter 

Closure Letter

Loan Quote Letter

			          Page 5 of 35