Postal Life Insurance

Department of Post





Software Requirements Specification (SRS)





Policy surrender



























Executive Summary



This document outlines the business requirements for Policy Surrender with Illustrations  of Insurance Management System (IMS). It aims to processing of Surrendering of a Policy  as per the ruling provided .



Business Objectives



The IMS project addresses the requirement of surrendering of a Policy by the Insurant and when required . This system will index the surrender request, process and effect the payments .



Project Scope



Policy surrender will be a module of the Insurance Admin system used by Insurant/Customer as and when required and unwilling to continue the policy .



4. Business Requirements





Functional Requirements Specification

Surrender value of a policy, is the amount that is payable to  the Insurant, when he/she foregoes the contingent benefit of his policy and surrenders it for an immediate  payment. Surrender value depends on the surrender factor and type and term of policy and as per the prescribed ruling mentioned in POLI

Business Logic

Policy should be in force

Policy should have been completed 36 months.

If there is any defaults of Premium (for less than 3 years policy, 6 months and for more than 3 years 12 months grace period), premium should be deducted with Interest amount from surrender value along with any other deductions as applicable

For policy attained Maturity , should be treated for Maturity process only

For WLA policies(PLI & RPLI) beyond maturity period eligible for Surrender

AEA & GY policy is not eligible for Surrender

If the defaults are other monthly mode like Quarterly, Half annually & Annually premium is to calculated  for Monthly and proportionate amount  is to be  deducted along with Interest and other deductions as applicable.

Necessary documents written consent , policy bond, premium receipt book,Pay recovery certificate . Loan receipt book,loan bond etc , indeminity bond for the lost policy are to be displayed in the system and obtained from customer while processing.

Calculation Logic

Cumulative age: Date of application for surrender-Date of birth(15days or more will be counted as 1 month)

Paid_up_value:(Number of Premiums Paid*sum assured amount)/Total number of Premiums Payable

Surrender value: Paid-up Value + Bonus)* Surrender Factor(Ref:Surrender factor table)-Unpaid   Premium-Unpaid Loan Principle and Interest

Surrender Paid in Advance

	For policies in respect of which premium is paid annually in advance, surrender value is to be calculated at the end of the year irrespective of the date of surrender but payment of surrender value may be made when the policy holder asks for it.

Surrender Date calculation in monthly mode:

Policy shall continue to be in force till the end of the month in which the application for surrender is received.Accordingly the premium shall also be payable for the period for which the policy continues to be in force.

Surrender Date calculation in Annual mode:-

Surrender value is to be calculated at the end of the year irrespective of the date of surrender but payment of surrender value may be made when the policy holder asks for it.

Bonus: Nil for less than 5 years 

	For more than 5 years : - proportionate to the reduced SA

Bonus calculation on paid-up amount :- (Bonus rate*Paid Up value)/1000  .

Payment: Paid to Insurant or Assignee for assigned policy

Product Type

Product Name

Surrender Allowed (Y/N)

Whole Life Assurance

Suraksha- Whole Life Assurance



Yes, after premium payment of 4 yrs.



Endowment Assurance

Santosh-Endowment Assurance



Yes, after premium payment of 3 yrs. 



Convertible Whole Life Assurance

Suvidha - Convertible Whole Life Assurance



Yes, after premium payment of 4 yrs.



Anticipated Endowment Assurance

Sumangal - Anticipated Endowment Assurance



No



Endowment 

Child Policy



Yes, after premium payment of 5 yrs.



Endowment Assurance

Yugal Suraksha - Joint Life Assurance



Yes, after premium payment of 3 yrs. 



RPLI:

Product Type

Product Name

Surrenders Allowed (Y/N)

Whole Life Assurance

Gram Suraksha- Whole Life Assurance



Yes, after premium payment of 4 yrs.



Endowment Assurance

Gram Santosh-Endowment Assurance



Yes, after premium payment of 3 yrs.



Convertible Whole Life Assurance

Gram Suvidha - Convertible Whole Life Assurance



Yes, after premium payment of 4 yrs

Anticipated Endowment Assurance

Gram Sumangal - Anticipated Endowment Assurance

no Surrender

Endowment

Child Policy

Yes, after premium payment of 5 yrs.

10 year Anticipated Endowment Assurance



Gram Priya

No Surrender









Quote screen:

Quote Type: Surrender

Policy Number:

Current date



Display Screen:

Policy Number:



Name:  

Policy status: 



Customer Id: 



Product Name:         



Policy issue date:  



Paid till date:		



Duplicate Policy bond: 







After clicking Get quote:







Bonus details:





Surrender claim Indexing

Policy Number  : 



Service request Type(drop Menu):  Surrender Claim



Display : As in Quote mentioned above

After submitting: Generating Service Request Number after checking all the conditions and rulings on the policy

Surrender Process At CPC



Calculation of Surrender Value(example)



Plan Type:EA

Entry Date:01-Jan-2007

Age at Entry:33

Age at Maturity: 60

Date of Birth:10-Jan-1974

SA:20000

Bonus: 10000

Premium paid upto :31-Dec-2025

Date of Application:31-Dec-2025

Premium:100

Paid Up Value:20000x(18x12)/((60-33)x12)=20000x216/324=13333

Surrender Factor Value:0.725(not exact value)

Surrender Value: (13333+10000)*0.725

Net Value: 16916